# Abstract

Performing high-quality science can be a daunting endeavor, especially for early career researchers (ECRs). Learning what kind of steps a research project entails is often done in a “learning by doing” manner or by “re-inventing the wheel”, which can be time-consuming, error-prone, and frustrating. While most institutions provide a selection of proprietary resources to facilitate this process, they are often expensive, spread out and hard to find.  Additionally, they are often not systematically validated or compared in terms of their reliability, validity, usability, and practicality before use.  So far, there is no comprehensive up-to-date overview of resources for different steps of the research process, from planning and designing a study, over collecting and analyzing data, to writing and disseminating findings. From a perspective of 10 neuroscientists of different career levels, this piece provides a solution for this problem by aggregating and explaining what resources are available to aid researchers in each of those steps. The freely available, curated and dynamically “living” tool **ARIADNE** spans the whole research process and is translated to a dynamic interface for easier use and search for the individual resources. **ARIADNE** will be constantly updated and extended into a platform that is easily accessible, referable, and can be widely distributed to researchers of all levels starting a new project, but also to supervisors as a guideline for their employees. With this comprehensive collection of mainly open-access tools, we aim to 1) provide a step-by-step guide for individuals starting out in science, 2) show the immense breadth and quality of available research tools (with a specific focus on open and reproducible science), 3) provide an introduction to common field-specific research terminology, and consequently 4) level the playing field for researchers from countries or institutions with less research opportunities and funding.
