# STEP 8: Writing the manuscript

Once collected data is analyzed and discussed with supervisor(s) and potential co-authors, researchers are set to outline their results in a comprehensive manuscript (Mensh & Kording, 2017). In this context, researchers have to determine a target journal for their manuscript (➜ [Journal-Author-Name-Estimator](https://jane.biosemantics.org/)). This journal should ideally be related to the research question, and will subsequently determine the scope of the paper (e.g., audience, article structure). In the processing of outlining results, it is essential to consider the role of visualizations. Effective visual representations can enhance the comprehension of complex data sets and findings (➜ [BioRender](https://www.biorender.com/); ➜ [Mermaid](https://mermaid.js.org/); ➜ [Nipype](https://nipype.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)). Various criteria can guide the journal selection (Salinas et al., 2014). Criteria like _impact factor_ (see Table 1) and journal prestige may be important for more senior researchers who need to build-up a reputation, whereas criteria like acceptance rates and turn-around times may be important for ECRs who need to complete their academic training period on time. One way to balance these, sometimes conflicting, needs is the publication of a _preprint_ (Bourne et al., 2017; see also Step 9). However, be aware that some journals prohibit the upload of preprints (➜ [Sherpa Romeo](https://v2.sherpa.ac.uk/romeo/)). The decision for a target journal is usually taken together with the project team (i.e., supervisor, collaborators, and co-authors, see also Step 1), and will often specify the sections to be included, how many words to write, how many figures or tables to include, and whether there is space for supplementary materials. For example, writing a manuscript with the results directly after the introduction as opposed to after the methods will substantially change the way the whole manuscript is written. Moreover, journal choice will directly affect how the article can be accessed (e.g., _open-access_ or _paywall_) and whether and how pre- and _postprints_ can be shared with the scientific community (see Table 1). Authorship of the manuscript should be offered to individuals who agree to make substantial scientific contributions to the project (see [APA Ethics Code Standard 8.12a](https://www.apa.org/ethics/code), for example). These include, but are not limited to, conceptualization, data collection, data analysis, writing, funding, or supervision. However, the status and order of authors varies strongly depending on the scientific discipline (Pain, 2021). In human psychology and neuroscience, the order of authorship usually reflects the relative contributions of the researchers involved. While the _first author_ is typically the person who has contributed most to the project (the graduate student), the person who is supervising the project often appears last (_“senior author”_) (see Table 1; Pain, 2021). The other authors are named in between, usually in descending order of decreasing contributions. Other fields may opt to include people with minor contributions or alphabetical author order (Pain, 2021).
