# Abstract

Performing high-quality research is a challenging endeavour, especially for early career researchers (ECRs), in many fields of psychological science. Most research is characterized by an experiential learning approach, which can be time-consuming, error-prone, and frustrating. While most institutions provide a selection of resources to help researchers with their research projects, these resources are often expensive, spread out, hard to find, and difficult to compare with one another in terms of reliability, validity, usability, and practicability. A comprehensive overview of resources that are useful for ECRs in psychological science and their supervisors is missing. To address this issue, we created ARIADNE – a living and interactive resource navigator that helps to use and search a dynamically updated database of resources. This tutorial aims at guiding researchers through a standard research project using ARIADNE along the way. The open-access database covers a constantly growing list of resources that are useful for each step of a research project, ranging from the planning and designing of a study, over the collection and analysis of the data, to the writing and disseminating of findings. By introducing ARIADNE to the research community, we provide 1) a step-by-step guide on how to perform a research project (in the fields of biological psychology and neuroscience as a case example, but with broad application to neighboring fields), and 2) an overview of resources that are useful at different project steps. By explicitly highlighting  open-access and open-source resources, we level the playing field for researchers from underprivileged countries or institutions, thereby facilitating open, fair, and reproducible research in the psychological sciences.
