# Discussion and outlook

With this comprehensive collection of ten research stages and their inherent respective challenges, which are addressed by open-access solutions gathered on our tool collection **ARIADNE**, we aimed for five main goals: 1) Provide a step-by-step guide for individuals starting out in science; 2) Show the immense breadth and quality of available, open-access research tools (with a specific focus on open and reproducible science); 3) Provide an introduction to common research terminology; 4) Level the playing field for researchers from diverse countries or institutions with less research opportunities and funding; 5) Mastering reproducibility and replicability challenges with this living and dynamic open resource platform. 

We think that providing an accessible and structured overview of resources with a focus on open science will be of utmost importance to early-career researchers, particularly since institutions, funding agencies and other stakeholders are laying more and more weight on efforts in improving scientific quality (see, for instance, the ➜ Declaration on Research Assessment, DORA). Facilitating the integration of open science practices and improving research quality through collections such as **ARIADNE** will thus be an important contribution to advance the careers of ECRs. We nevertheless hope that our paper and tool can be widely distributed to researchers of all levels starting a new project, but also to supervisors as a guideline or tutorial for their employees. Although we started this resource from the viewpoint of conducting research in biological psychology and neuroscience, we aim for it to be widely applicable to multiple sciences by constantly updating and extending **ARIADNE**’s resources. As our resource is “living” and dynamic, we also actively call experienced researchers from other, neighboring fields to action, to contribute their own tried-and-tested tools to our database.

As a team of ten researchers at different career levels, including PhD students, postdocs and professors, we bring extensive experience and knowledge in using these resources, many of which are regularly employed in our own work. The resources provided in this manuscript and in **ARIADNE** serve as curated recommendations based on current research practices. However, it is important for researchers to consider their own preferences and requirements when choosing resources for their experiments. The authors of this manuscript cannot guarantee the effectiveness, suitability, or long-term availability of any particular resource for a specific research project, but we will regularly update and add resources with a dynamic, quality-driven approach. Researchers are encouraged to exercise their own judgment and discretion when selecting resources and conducting experiments.

We would further like to stress that the present version of the tool is merely a starting point, which we aim to continuously extend and improve upon. Hence, future updates will, to name a few, include resources and information regarding supervision and mentoring (Jabre et al., 2021), academia beyond the PhD (postdoc-level: Bourne & Friedberg, 2006; professor-level: Tregoning & McDermott, 2020), lab life (Maestre, 2019), building up collaborations, networking and lab exchanges (Vicens & Bourne, 2007), how to deal with article rejection (Nature Human Behaviour, 2021), as well as time management, progress tracking and grant writing (Bourne & Chalupa, 2006). 

In conclusion, we clearly emphasize that this resource holds promise to encourage not only early career scholars, but also more senior researchers, delving into the field of open and reproducible science, using our tool as a starting and orientation point. Together, we can greatly alleviate the challenges attached to starting out in science, prevent a constant, frustrating “re-invention of the wheel”, and provide helpful support during all stages of the research process - for everyone.
