# STEP 7: Data analysis

Classically, this step overlaps with Step 7, and can range from a metadata setup, data cleaning, screening, refining and updating the research analysis plan to documenting as implemented an Initial Data Analysis Framework (see Baillie et al., 2022). Ideally, the data analysis procedure for the current project has been thoroughly planned and fixed in advance during Step 3 as part of a preregistration or Registered Report. But even then, many new decisions have to be made at this stage which can affect the analyses, e.g., how easily they can be shared with others or how results are visualized. Choosing the right analysis framework one feels comfortable with is just one of the many challenges in this step (see **ARIADNE**; ➜ RStudio or ➜ Jupyter Notebook). Crucially, in recent times, there has been a shift in the focus of group-level to individual trajectory analyses, which have a significant impact on the required sample size and the associated effect size. To overcome inherent inaccuracies associated with estimating effect sizes, researchers can employ sequential analyses, which involve monitoring data collection as it progresses and controlling for Type 1 error rate (Lakens, 2014). At a predetermined stage in the process (e.g., defined in Step 2), an interim analysis can be conducted to determine whether the collected data provide sufficient evidence to conclude that an effect is present, whether more data should be gathered, or whether the study should be terminated if the predicted effect is unlikely to be observed (Lakens, 2014). Of note, data analysis is a critical step which attracted much attention recently as it is a stage where questionable research practices (John et al., 2012) and bias can occur (even inadvertently), which is one reason for the replicability crisis (Anvari & Lakens, 2018). 
